The MergeConsensus API design space.md (#382)
ethereum/pm: Merge/The Merge: Consensus API design space.md

# The Merge: Consensus API design space
### Meeting Date/Time: Thursday, Aug 26 at 13:00 UTC
### Meeting Duration: 60 minutes
### [Github Agenda](https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/378)
### [Video of the meeting](https://youtu.be/il0nha1HSiE)
### Moderator: Mikhail Kalinin
### Notes: Alen (Santhosh)

## Decisions Made / Action items
| Decision Item | Description | Video ref |
| ------------- | ----------- | --------- |

> |1 |Discussion about the coinbase might be overridden by the execution client or not to be taken up in the Discord for further discussion | [36.13](https://youtu.be/il0nha1HSiE?t=2173)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|8.1 |Discussion about the 'coinbase might be overridden by the execution client or not' to be taken up in the Discord for further discussion | [36.13](https://youtu.be/il0nha1HSiE?t=2173)|
```

> |1.1 |Usage of the safehead, we need to decide is that the unsafe head is at the safe head or is that finalized safe head? I think is the best option here because it's very close to the tip, but it's also very safe. And where is finalized is potentially pretty old and we don't want to give user block. That's, you know, several minutes old and unsafe is unnecessarily risky to the user. | [50.04](https://youtu.be/il0nha1HSiE?t=3004)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|8.2 |Usage of the safehead, we need to decide is that the unsafe head is at the safe head or is that finalized safe head? I think is the best option here because it's very close to the tip, but it's also very safe. And where is finalized is potentially pretty old and we don't want to give user block. That's, you know, several minutes old and unsafe is unnecessarily risky to the user. | [50.04](https://youtu.be/il0nha1HSiE?t=3004)|
```

Reviewer: We could add the summary of the decision (if any).

> |1.2 |Mikhail proposed to reach out the Geth team in this Discord to talk about this singe find requirements of the same process and on the API sync.. | [51.43](https://youtu.be/il0nha1HSiE?t=3083)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|8.3 |Mikhail proposed to reach out the Geth team in this Discord to talk about this singe find requirements of the same process and on the API sync.. | [51.43](https://youtu.be/il0nha1HSiE?t=3083)|
```

> |1.3 |Tim proposed to use Coredev next week to discuss about the merge | [53.05](https://youtu.be/il0nha1HSiE?t=3182)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|8.4 |Tim proposed to use Coredev next week to discuss about the merge | [53.05](https://youtu.be/il0nha1HSiE?t=3182)|
```

**Mikhail** 
* Yeah, I would make a call like one week after if I like using the same time slot. So any other opinions on that? 

**Tim**
* I mean we can use like half of all core devs or two-thirds of all core devs to discuss the same for the merge like we and its basic. It's not exactly one week and it's not exactly the same time but it might be a good enough place. 

**Mikhail** 
* If we can do this that the awesome sure. Yeah, it's hard to see what's higher priority.

**Tim**
* Yeah, so I guess yeah just in terms of next steps. Like as soon as they get team has like a sync right up just posted in the El Cortez agenda and we'll make sure to cover that first on the call next week. 

**Mikhail** 
* Yep, and whatever time will tell, whatever time periods. It's really awkward to have. So we'll have to go through. We'll just try to do as much as we can. Like, I mean just follow this discussion there. Okay, I'm stop sharing. Thanks everyone for coming. I was like, expecting, not reaching the end of the document today. Thank you so much. See you later. Exactly.

-------------------------------------------
## Attendees

> **Mikhail Kalinin**  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Mikhail Kalinin  
```

Reviewer: Update all attendees in the similar format (Row 354 - 379)

Author: Done

**Lukasz Rozmej**  
**Pooja | ECH**  
**Gary Schulte**  
**Micah Zoltu**  
**Dustin Brody**  
**Terence**  
**Danny**  
**Jacek Sieka**  
**Paul Hauner**  
**Alex stokes**  
**Vitalik**  
**Dankrad Feist Kevaundray Wedderburn**  
**DCinvestor**  
**Ben Edgington**  
**Protolambda**  
**Sajida Zouarhi**  
**Hsiao-Wei Wang**  
**Karim T**  
**Kristof Gazso**  
**Adrian Sutton**  
**Bhargavasomu**  
**Tim Beiko**  
**Trenton Van Epps**  
**Mamy**  
**Tomasz Stanczak**  
**Ansgar Dietrichs** 
-------------------------------------------

## Zoom chat:
09:00:46 From  MariusVanDerWijden  to  Everyone:
  Yes  
09:00:53 From  thegostep  to  Everyone:
  tty  
09:01:02 From  MariusVanDerWijden  to  Everyone:
  Can you paste the link to the md in chat?  
09:01:08 From  lightclient  to  Everyone:
  “gm”  
09:01:17 From  Ben Edgington  to  Everyone:
  https://hackmd.io/@n0ble/consensus_api_design_space  
09:01:27 From  Mikhail Kalinin  to  Everyone:
  The call will be recorded and uploaded to youtube  
09:01:37 From  Mikhail Kalinin  to  Everyone:
  oops, it’s being recorded already :))  
09:05:16 From  Pooja | ECH  to  Everyone:
  my mic is not working it seems.  

> 09:07:17 From  Pooja | ECH  to  Micah Zoltu(Direct Message):

Reviewer: Remove line 400-413
